 The operating team could not make proper assessment of completion of draining based on the 
available indications. The operating team assumed that the draining has been completed, but in reality 
the water was not fully drained out. 
 As a result, shot coke and hot water suddenly gushed out during the un-heading operation and spilled 
over at switch deck platform at 20M elevation and at ground floor adjacent to the lift, which resulted in 
superficial burn injuries to two persons at switch deck and approx. 65% burn injuries to two persons at 
ground floor. 
 Although the hooter was operated during coke drum un-heading to alert the manpower working in other 
activities of the unit, the areas was not physically barricaded. 
 The contract manpower workings in the unit (but not involved in jobs in coke drum area) were not 
properly sensitized about the critical operational activities in the unit and the significance of safety 
sirens and hooters. 
 The spillage could not be contained at the switch deck platform at 20M elevation due to inadequate 
barriers and got spilled over to the ground floor
RECOMMENDATIONS
 Area barricading of the coke drum area at ground floor level with proper warning sign board is to be 
ensured during every un-heading activity in Delayed Coker Unit. 
 The coke drum area at ground floor level should be covered under CCTV surveillance. 
 The containment of coke spillage during un-heading is to be ensured by providing necessary 
removable type metal barriers around the chute so that any coke and hot water spillage is directed 
towards the coke pit. 
 A provision of Pressure Indication (PT) is to be made along with Temperature Indication (TI) in coke 
drum feed line after coke drum feed isolation valve which may assist in proper assessment of 
completion of water draining. Provided for information purpose only. This information should be evaluated to determine if it is applicable in your 
operations, to avoid recurrence of such incidents.
 The standard operating procedure (SOP) for coke drum un-heading system is also to incorporate OHS 
risks like burn injuries due to steam & hot water splash, spillage of loose coke, collapse of coke bed. 
 It is recommended to monitor the Asphaltene content during change of Coker feed blend and to do 
necessary adjustments in operational parameters (higher coke drum pressure, higher recycle ratio and 
lower heater coil outlet temperature to reduce the chances of shot coke formation along with coke 
fines). Excessive shot coke formation along with coke fines is not desirable as it leads to channel 
blockage & clogging of coke drum inlet distributor which hinders the free draining of hot water. 
 As a long term measure, it is recommended to replace the semi-automatic/ manual un-heading system 
with fully automated un-heading system having slide valve design and fixed chute arrangement. 
